Release 2.22.0 (#2238)
ably/ably-js: CHANGELOG.md

This contains only the most important and/or user-facing changes; for a full changelog, see the commit history.

## [2.22.0](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/tree/2.22.0) (2026-06-05)

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/2.21.0...2.22.0)

### What's Changed

> - Make react agent additive [#2237](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2237)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make `agent` channel option additive in Reach hooks [#2237](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2237)
```

I think it's clearer this way

- Add missing `RestAnnotation#delete` typings [#2218](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2218)
- Throw on legacy v1 `ably/promises` and `ably/callbacks` imports [#2227](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2227)
- Mark v1 callback API as deprecated and throw on v1 callback shapes [#2226](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2226)
- Mark public `ObjectMessage.id` and `.timestamp` as optional [#2230](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2230)
- Add `PathEvent.isOriginalTarget` as alternative to `bubbles` for LiveObjects path subscriptions [#2223](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2223)
- Introduce `Path` type alias for path arrays in LiveObjects code [#2222](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2222)

> - Change `channels#release` semantics to implement RTS4a [#2190](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2190)

Reviewer: We don't mention spec points in user-facing docs. Should be:

```suggestion
- Change `channels#release` semantics to implicit detach rather than error on unexpected channel state [#2190](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2190)
```

> - Bump `ws` to 8.20.1 to resolve security advisory [#2225](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/pull/2225)

Reviewer: nit: not sure we usually include version bumps, but this might be justified if its security related

Author: yeah i wasn't too sure either but i think i err on the side of keeping it
